README.md, before:

# Introduction
## Sparkify

Sparkify strives for a world with more music!
How do we do this? By accompanying you with the best-fit for your taste. We ensure that the music in your ears is just the right for you - whatever the situation and mood might be!

# Startup the project

The aim of the project is to empower our data analytics with the most effective structure possible, on the AWS Cloud using Spark!
For that reason, we build a ETL pipeline for extracting data from s3, processes the data using Spark according to the need of data analytics team and load the transformed dimensional tables back to S3. 
With the Cloud approach we want data that:

- is easily accessible,
- has a structure that is easy to understand,
- can be analysed by SQL queries.

# Point of Origin

Our data is stored as 2 sets of json files:
## Log data

Log_data files store all information we have about users and their sessions, including user's name and location, level of access, song and artist name, timestamp when the song was played etc. The fields available in every log_data file are:

- artist
- auth
- firstName
- gender
- itemInSession
- lastName
- length
- level
- location
- method
- page
- registration
- sessionId
- song
- status
- ts
- userAgent
- userId

The log_data files are partitioned by year and month, with a separate folder for each partition. For example, below we have pasted filepaths to two files in this dataset:

- log_data/2018/11/2018-11-12-events.json
- log_data/2018/11/2018-11-13-events.json

## Song data

Song_data files provide information about every single songs available in our service, along with some info about the artist. The following fields are available for each song:

- artist_id
- artist_latitude
- artist_location
- artist_longitude
- artist_name
- duration
- num_songs
- song_id
- title
- year

Each json file in the song_data dataset stores info about one song. The song_data files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song's track ID. For example, below we have pasted filepaths to two files in this dataset:

- song_data/A/B/C/TRABCEI128F424C983.json
- song_data/A/A/B/TRAABJL12903CDCF1A.json 

# Database Design
<img width="806" alt="grafik" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/29717043/134798326-eee23f4f-f145-4166-b586-552ff2f790b3.png">

### Explanation of colors:
- Grey: Table names
- Red: VARCHAR
- Yellow: INTEGER / FLOAT
- Green: TIMESTAMP

## Fact table

__Table name: songplays__
Fields: songplay_id, start_time, user_id, level, session_id, location, user_agent, song_id, artist_id
Datasource: log_data, song_data
Dimensions

## Dimension tables

__Table name: users__
Fields: user_id, first_name, last_name, gender, level

__Table name: songs__
Fields: song_id, title, artist_id, year, duration

__Table name: artists__
Fields: artist_id, name, location, latitude, longitude

__Table name: time__
Fields: start_time, hour, day, week, month, year, weekday

## Explanation of files
__Files only work if a Cluster is up and running on Redshift__

tbd

## How to run

tbd


__Run the drive program main.py__

tbd

__The create_tables.py and etl.py file can also be run independently__

tbd

Commit message:

complete Spark Data Lakes project

README.md, after:

# Introduction
## Sparkify

Sparkify strives for a world with more music!
How do we do this? By accompanying you with the best-fit for your taste. We ensure that the music in your ears is just the right for you - whatever the situation and mood might be!

# Startup the project

The aim of the project is to empower our data analytics with the most effective structure possible, using Spark Data Lakes!
For that reason, we build a ETL pipeline for wrangling data with Spark, using S3 to load and save data. 

# Point of Origin

Our data is stored as 2 sets of json files:
## Log data

Log_data files store all information we have about users and their sessions, including user's name and location, level of access, song and artist name, timestamp when the song was played etc. The fields available in every log_data file are:

- artist
- auth
- firstName
- gender
- itemInSession
- lastName
- length
- level
- location
- method
- page
- registration
- sessionId
- song
- status
- ts
- userAgent
- userId

The log_data files are partitioned by year and month, with a separate folder for each partition. For example, below we have pasted filepaths to two files in this dataset:

- log_data/2018/11/2018-11-12-events.json
- log_data/2018/11/2018-11-13-events.json

## Song data

Song_data files provide information about every single songs available in our service, along with some info about the artist. The following fields are available for each song:

- artist_id
- artist_latitude
- artist_location
- artist_longitude
- artist_name
- duration
- num_songs
- song_id
- title
- year

Each json file in the song_data dataset stores info about one song. The song_data files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song's track ID. For example, below we have pasted filepaths to two files in this dataset:

- song_data/A/B/C/TRABCEI128F424C983.json
- song_data/A/A/B/TRAABJL12903CDCF1A.json 

# Database Design
<img width="806" alt="grafik" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/29717043/134798326-eee23f4f-f145-4166-b586-552ff2f790b3.png">

### Explanation of colors:
- Grey: Table names
- Red: VARCHAR
- Yellow: INTEGER / FLOAT
- Green: TIMESTAMP

## Fact table

__Table name: songplays__
Fields: songplay_id, start_time, user_id, level, session_id, location, user_agent, song_id, artist_id
Datasource: log_data, song_data
Dimensions

## Dimension tables

__Table name: users__
Fields: user_id, first_name, last_name, gender, level

__Table name: songs__
Fields: song_id, title, artist_id, year, duration

__Table name: artists__
Fields: artist_id, name, location, latitude, longitude

__Table name: time__
Fields: start_time, hour, day, week, month, year, weekday

## Explanation of files
__Files only work if a Cluster is up and running on Redshift__

The project workspace includes six files:

- etl.py reads and processes files from song_data and log_data buckets stored in S3 and reads them into a Spark dataframe for data wrangling before being saved as a parquet file.

## How to run

### The data-sources are provided by two S3 buckets 

- Song data: s3://udacity-dend/song_data
- Log data: s3://udacity-dend/log_data

### You need a AWS Redshift Cluster up and running


__Run the python file etl.py__

- python etl.py
- lean back
